hello and welcome to BBC News in the
last hour we've been monitoring a speech
from the Hezbollah leader Hassan nasrala
giving his first public response to two
days of attacks in Lebanon using
sabotage communication devices the
number of people killed has now risen to
37 with over 3,000 people wounded in a
moment or two I'll talk once again to
our security correspondent Frank Gardner
but let me tell you a little more about
what hezbollah's leader has been saying
because he accused Israel of been behind
behind that operation over the last
couple of days which he said crossed all
red
lines thousands of pages were targeted
by the Israeli enemy and detonated at
the same
time with this operation the enemy
crossed all rules laws and red
lines he didn't care about anything at
all not morally not humanely not
legally well that uh is still going on
we are monitoring that all the time with
our teams inside The Newsroom but Frank
Gardner our security corresp has been
with me through the last hour monitoring
what the hezb leader has been saying
worth just underlining hezb of course a
prescribed terrorist group by the UK Us
and other Western governments but what
have you picked out so far some of what
he says is true some of it isn't he said
our Command and control system is
undamaged oh yeah right it's absolutely
trash I mean they're in real trouble
they're reeling operationally from this
so they're in no position to fight a war
right now other than the low-level
exchange of far they're doing across the
border but where I think he's right is
where he says bring it on we welcome you
know an invasion by the Israeli Ground
Forces we will receive them here and
actually the last time Israeli Ground
Forces did go into Lebanon Southern
Lebanon in 2006 in a major offensive
they did get a bloody nose um it ended
in a very very
inconclusive uh sort of stalemate
essentially and Israel found Hezbollah
to be a much tougher nut to crack than
they thought um you know they had and I
said this in the last hour but they had
pre-positioned a lot of their anti-tank
devices they had some very powerful uh
russian-built cornet for example
anti-tank weapons uh mines that were
buried under the exact bit on the road
where they thought the Israeli tanks
would probably try and maneuver um so if
Israel does decide that it is going to
go full Tonto on this and do a fullscale
invasion of Southern Lebanon which will
be its third major incursion into that
country then in recent years then it
could be really quite painful for Israel
it's going to be very painful for
Lebanon if that happens um so what this
talk was about was not signaling here's
exactly what we're going to do here's
how we're going to fight back no it was
more of a pep talk it was rallying the
troops it was first of all paying
tribute to those uh First Responders and
emergency health workers who had rushed
to donate blood and to deal with the
wounded he uh hailed as heroes or their
Fighters who've been injured in this but
it was primarily saying we've had a
taken a big hit here we don't deny it
but we will be stronger from this we're
going to emerge more resilient and
actually don't underestimate the
resilience of organizations including
prescribed terrorist organizations like
Hezbollah and others to be able to
bounce back from things like this
because they hide amongst the people
This Is War amongst the people a and
he's repeated only again in the last few
minutes there'll be tough retribution
and just punishment for the blast we've
seen over the last couple of days I mean
Hezbollah sit there in Lebanon just
remind viewers I mean we've heard
comments and condemnation from the
Lebanese government in terms of the
civilians impacted by those explosions
how much influence control do they have
on the Lebanese government huge I mean
they are a political party as well I
mean it's very odd they are an anomaly
in the sense that they are both a
political party and a very much a part
of the fabric of Lebanese political life
alongside other parties Lebanon of
course is a multi-confessional
um country it's a it's a small place
where people speak French Arabic and
English you've got um Sunni Muslims Shia
Muslims and Hezbollah tend to be well
they are in fact entirely Shia Muslims
following the Shia branch of Islam and
you've got Drews you've got Christians
marinite Christians and so on you've got
all these different elements and so it's
been always a really difficult balancing
um act to try and keep the place on an
even Keel and of course they had a
horrific Civil War that lasted from 1975
till
1990 um and the fear now is that Lebanon
could once again be plunged back into
Warfare just as its economy is in a
really powerless State let's look at the
situation from the other direction your
assessment on the Israeli strategy
because of course it's a coalition
government we know that Benjamin
Netanyahu were extending the war aims
but under huge pressure from the far
right the extremist within his own
coalition government so in terms of
Israel's
strategy what do you discern from what
we've seen over the last couple of days
I think there may well be a bit of a gap
between what the military Chiefs want
and the security establishment on one
hand and necessarily what the
politicians want this is the mo let's be
clear about this this is the most
hard-right government in Israel's
history since 1948 the security minister
itamar bavier is um he's been convicted
of terrorism offenses he controls the
police um smotrich um is the um the
Finance Minister these people are very
much tied into the settler movement they
believe in not the West Bank and an
independent event ultimate State for the
Palestinians but this this is Judea and
Samaria and this is the god-given right
of the Jews to live there and they would
like to C they'd like to see the place
um cleansed as it were of um the
Palestinians who've been living there
for centuries so underlying all of this
all the stuff we're talking about here
in Lebanon and pages and Gaza and all
the rest of it underlying all of that is
this open running saw that the
Palestinians and this was brought to
light in the UN yesterday the
Palestinians want their own independent
contigous Homeland in West Bank with
East Jerusalem as their capital and most
of the International Community backed
them in that including Western
governments but it strongly resisted by
this government and Benjamin Netanyahu
the Israeli Prime Minister knows that if
he if he makes a deal that is against
the wishes of the far-right elements of
his government his Coalition will
collapse he'll have to call elections
and he will probably lose and many
people speculate that he will then end
up in court on corruption charges
possibly even facing jail that is the
backstory to what is going on at the
moment